1) --> IPv6 header is of 40bytes long. The header fields includes : 
	Version(4bits)
	Traffic Class (8 bits)
	Flow label (20 bits)
	Payload length(16 bits)
	Next header(8 bits)
	Hop limit(8 bits)
	Source address (128 bits)
    Destination address (128 bits)


	Purpose of each header fields of ipv6 header. 

a) Version(4 bits) 
	This header field shows which version of internet protocal we are using. It can have two values 
	0100 or 0110 , i.e ipv4 or ipv6. 

b) Traffic Class (6+2 bits)
        The bits of this field holds two values.First 6 MSB hold the differentiatied services field(DS field)
	, which is used to classify packets. All standard DS fields end with '0'. 
	The remaining two bits used for ECN (Explicit Congestion Notification) which is divided into ranges
	where the source provides congestion control and non congestion control traffic. 

c) Flow label(20 bits) 
	The Flow Label field  is designed to facilitate the efficient routing and handling of packets 
	belonging to the same flow. A "flow" is a sequence of packets sent from a particular source to a
	particular (unicast or multicast) destination for which the source desires special handling by the
	intervening routers. This special handling can include things like prioritized delivery, bandwidth 
	guarantees, and low-latency transmission, which are essential for real-time applications such as
	voice over IP (VoIP), online gaming, and video conferencing

d) Payload length(16 bits) 
	The Payload Length field specifies the length of the payload carried by the IPv6 packet which 
	includes: the data portion of the packet and any extension headers that follow the basic ipv6 
	header.

e) Next header(8 bits) 
	This header field specifies the type of the next header.  This field usually specifies the transport
	layer protocol used by a packet's payload ( can also  be udp) . When extension headers are present in
	the packet this field indicates which extension header follows.

f) Hop limit (8 bits) 
	This header fields specifies how many routers can this packet traverse maximum. Everytime a packet 
	is traversed into a router, value is decremented by 1.This is useful very much to stop the packet 
	from looping. 

g) Source Address (128 bits) 
	This header fields specifies the address from which the packet is sent. 

h) Destination Address (128 bits) 
	This header fields specifies the address to which the packet is to be sent. 




	Ref: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv6_packet#Fixed_header
	: chatgpt
	: google search


