Q)  What is the size of TCP  header ? , What are the different fields ? Describe its fields.

    The TCP header size varies from 20 bytes to 60 bytes because of the options field. 
	There are 10 mandatory fields and 2 optional fields on TCP header. 
	They are : 
	
  a) Source port(16 bits) 
     It is a mandatory field which contains the port number of the sending application.Value ranges from 
	 0 to 65535 ( 2^16 -1) . 

  b) Destination port (16 bits) 
     It is a mandatory field which contains the port number of the receiving application. Value ranges from 
	 0 to 65535 . 
	
  c) Sequence Number (32 bits) 
     It is a mandatory field. It has dual role. 
	  * If the SYN flag is set(1), then this is the initial sequence number. The sequence number of the actual
	    first data byte and the acknowledged number in the corresponding ACK are then this sequence number
	    plus 1.
      * If the SYN flag is unset(0), then this is the accumulated sequence number of the first data byte of 
	    this segment for the current session. 

  d) Acknowledgment number (32 bits)
     It is a mandatory field. If the ACK flag is set then the value of this field is the next sequence number
	 that the sender of the ACK is expecting. This acknowledges receipt of all prior bytes (if any).The
	 first ACK sent by each end acknowledges the other end's initial sequence number itself, but no data.

  e) Data offset (4 bits) 
     It is a mandatory field.The Data Offset field indicates the size of the TCP header in 32-bit words
	 (also known as double words or 4-byte words). This value tells the receiver where the header ends and
	 where the actual data payload begins.
	 Since the field is 4 bits in size, it can represent values from 0 to 15. However, the minimum valid value
	 for the Data Offset field is 5, which corresponds to a 20-byte header (5 x 4 bytes).

  f) Reserved (4 bits) 
     It is a mandatory field. The Reserved field in the TCP header consists of 4 bits.These bits are reserved
	 for future use to accommodate potential extensions or modifications to the TCP protocol.As of the current
	 TCP specification, these bits must be set to zero and are ignored by the receiver.

  g) Flags (8 bits) 
     It is also mandatory field. It contains 8 1-bit flags. These are as follows: 
	   1) CWR: (Congestion window reduced) flag is set by the sending host to indicate that it received a
	           TCP segment with the ECE flag set and had responded in congestion control mechanism.
       2) ECE: ECN-Echo has a dual role, depending on the value of the SYN flag. It indicates:
	           If the SYN flag is set (1), the TCP peer is ECN capable.
			   If the SYN flag is unset (0), a packet with the Congestion Experienced flag set (ECN=11)
			   in its IP header was received during normal transmission.This serves as an indication of network
			   congestion (or impending congestion) to the TCP sender.
	   3) URG: Indicates that the Urgent pointer field is significant
	   4) ACK: Indicates that the Acknowledgment field is significant.All packets after the initial SYN packet
	           sent by the client should have this flag set.
       5) PSH: Push function. Asks to push the buffered data to the receiving application.
	   6) RST: Reset the connection
	   7) SYN: Synchronize sequence numbers. Only the first packet sent from each end should have this flag
	           set. Some other flags and fields change meaning based on this flag, and some are only valid
			   when it is set, and others when it is clear.
	   8) FIN: Last packet from the sender.

    h) Window size (16 bits) 
	   It is also mandatory field. The Window Size field is used to manage the flow of data between the sender
	   and receiver. It tells the sender how much more data can be sent before needing an acknowledgment.
       This mechanism helps prevent buffer overflow at the receiver's end and ensures that the receiver is not 
	   overwhelmed by too much data at once.

	i) Checksum (16 bits)
	   It is also mandatory field. The Checksum field is used to detect errors in the TCP segment's header and
	   data.It helps ensure that the data has not been corrupted during transmission from the sender to the
	   receiver.

    j) Urgent pointer (16 bits)
	   It is also mandatory field. The Urgent Pointer field is used in conjunction with the URG (Urgent) flag
	   to signal that certain data in the TCP segment is urgent and should be processed immediately by the
	   receiving application.The pointer specifies the offset from the sequence number where the urgent data
	   ends.

    k) Options (Variable 0–320 bits, in units of 32 bits)
	   It is an optional field. he length of this field is determined by the data offset field. Options have up
	   to three fields: Option-Kind (1 byte), Option-Length (1 byte), Option-Data (variable). The Option-Kind
	   field indicates the type of option.

	l) Padding 
	   The TCP header padding is used to ensure that the TCP header ends, and data begins, on a 32-bit boundary
	   . The padding is composed of zeros.



Ref: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_Control_Protocol
   : chatgpt
   : google

			   



